Case automation rules docs page (#27783)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/service_management/case_management/automation_rules.md

---
title: Case automation rules
further_reading:
- link: "/service_management/case_management"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Case management"
---

## Overview

With Case Automation Rules, you can automate actions based on predefined rules, reducing manual effort, improving response times, and ensuring consistency across case workflows.

## Configuring automation rules

To configure automation rules:
1. Navigate to **[Case Management > Settings][1]**.
1. Select the project you want to create automation rules for.
1. Select **Automation**.
1. Click **New Rule**.

> {{< img src="/service_management/case_management/automation_rules/create_case_automation_rule.png" alt="creenshot of the Create Automation Rule dialog in a case management system. The dialog includes steps to set when to evaluate the rule, specify workflow for rule match, name the rule, and set its status. There are options for Case Creation, Status Transition, and Attribute Change. A Triage Assistant workflow is selected. The rule can be enabled with a checkbox. There are Cancel and Save buttons" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/automation_rules/create_case_automation_rule.png" alt="Screenshot of the Create Automation Rule dialog in a case management system. The dialog includes steps to set when to evaluate the rule, specify workflow for rule match, name the rule, and set its status. There are options for Case Creation, Status Transition, and Attribute Change. A Triage Assistant workflow is selected. The rule can be enabled with a checkbox. There are Cancel and Save buttons" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

Also, not a strong stance here but my take is that this alt text is too wordy? I don't know that specifying each option is particularly helpful/meaningful? Especially since you go into more detail about the configuration options in the following section.

> {{< img src="/service_management/case_management/automation_rules/create_case_automation_rule.png" alt="Screenshot of the "Create Automation Rule" dialog in a case management project. The dialog includes steps to set when to evaluate the rule, specify workflow for rule match, name the rule, and set its status. There are options for "Case Creation", "Status Transition", and "Attribute Change". A "Triage Assistant" workflow is selected. The rule can be enabled with a checkbox. There are "Cancel" and "Save" buttons." style="width:100%;" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/automation_rules/create_case_automation_rule.png" alt="Screenshot of the 'Create Automation Rule' dialog in a case management project. The dialog includes steps to set when to evaluate the rule, specify workflow for rule match, name the rule, and set its status. There are options for 'Case Creation', 'Status Transition', and 'Attribute Change'. A 'Triage Assistant' workflow is selected. The rule can be enabled with a checkbox. There are 'Cancel' and 'Save' buttons." style="width:100%;" >}}
```
